What is OpenMD?

OpenMD is an open source molecular dynamics engine which is capable of
efficiently simulating liquids, proteins, nanoparticles, interfaces,
and other complex systems using atom types with orientational degrees
of freedom (e.g. "sticky" atoms, point dipoles, and coarse-grained
assemblies). Proteins, zeolites, lipids, transition metals (bulk, flat
interfaces, and nanoparticles) have all been simulated using force
fields included with the code. OpenMD works on parallel computers
using the Message Passing Interface (MPI), and comes with a number of
analysis and utility programs that are easy to use and modify. An
OpenMD simulation is specified using a very simple meta-data language
that is easy to learn.

Simulations are started in OpenMD using a single Molecular Dynamics (.md)
file.   These files must start with the <OpenMD> tag and must 
have two sections:

  1) a C-based <MetaData> section, and 

  2) a <Snapshot> block for initial coordinate and velocity information.

Detailed descriptions of the structures of these files are 
available in the "doc" directory.  Sample simulations are 
available in the "samples" directory. 

What you need to compile and use OpenMD:

 1) Good C++ and C compilers.  We've built and tested OpenMD
    on the following architecture & compiler combinations:

    Architecture                CC     CXX     Notes
    -------------------------   ----   -----   ----------------------
    ix86-pc-linux-gnu           icc    icpc    (Intel v. 10)
    i386-apple-darwin11.1.0     gcc    g++     (GNU v.4.3)
    i386-apple-darwin11.1.0     icc    icpc    (Intel v. 12)
    x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu    gcc    g++     (Pathscale 3.2)

 2) CMake, a cross-platform build system which is available at
    http://www.cmake.org     Most Linux and some Unix distributions
    provide CMake as a standard package. If not, please download it,
    and make sure you get a recent version. Mac OS X users can either
    download the CMake installer or install it from the command line
    using macports.

 3) MPI-2 is optional for the single processor version of OpenMD, but
    is required if you want OpenMD to run in parallel. We like
    OpenMPI. Other implementations of MPI-2 might work, but we haven't
    tested them.  You can get Open MPI here: http://www.open-mpi.org/

 4) Other optional (but quite useful) libraries that will unlock some
    features of OpenMD:

      Open Babel:  http://openbabel.org
      Qhull:       http://www.qhull.org
      FFTW:        http://www.fftw.org

 5) Some of the utility scripts depend on Python and Perl.  These
    interpreters are common installations on most flavors of Unix and
    Mac OS X.


INSTRUCTIONS

 1) Get, build, and test the required pieces above.
 2) cmake .
 3) make
 4) make install

That's it.
